# GoPAST VoIP Server

<br>

## GoPAST stands for: Go Processing Asterisk SIP Trunks

<br>

## NOT PRODUCTION READY STILL IN DEVELOPMENT

<br>

### GoPAST is a multi-tenant VoIP SIP trunk server that runs on Debian (but also with changes can run on other GNU/Linux distributions and FreeBSD), uses Asterisk as its SIP server and Go to provide a web interface.

<br>

### The GoPAST projects goal is to make a stable and minimalist SIP Trunk server that can be easly managed by a web interface written in Go.

<br>

## How GoPAST works:

- Authentication for the web interface is achived via client certificates generated with OpenSSL.
- Creating/removing/updating/deleting a SIP trunk in the web interface requires a 2FA code each time.
- Debian is the recommended OS.
- MariaDB is the database software.
- Nginx is the webserver software.
- Go is the language used to make the web interface.
- For the webserver certificates its recommanded to get a ECDSA certificate from Let's Encrypt with the curve secp384r1.
- The web server by default is set to only use TLS version 1.3 and cipher suite TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 for maxiumum security.
- For the Asterisk certificates its recommanded to get a ECDSA certificate from Let's Encrypt with the curve secp384r1. At the time of writing (Feb 2023), TLS version 1.2 is the highest available TLS version for Asterisk.
- TLS certificates used by MariaDB for encrypted traffic are generated by OpenSSL and use ECDSA certificate with the curve secp384r1 on TLS version 1.3.
- The web interface and database make IP restriction on SIP trunks compulsorily.
- It is a minimalistic SIP Trunk server, there is no voicemail, no ring groups, auto attandents etc.
- Debian OS Fail2ban uses nftables, firewall rules also use nftables. No guides have been written on using iptables in this project, as of writing (Feb 2023) iptables has been classed as deprecated.

<br>

### At time of writing (18th Feb 2023) devolpment for GoPAST on FreeBSD has been paused and only new devolpment of GoPAST will continue on Debian 11.

### In this repository if a directory is appended with Debian or FreeBSD it means the files inside are speficaly for that OS. Some files are also appended with Debian or FreeBSD to distinguish between what OS there for.

### If a directory or file in this repository does not have FreeBSD or Debian appended to its name then it means it can be used on either OS.

<br>

For a list of abbreviations and there meanings used throughout this repository please refer to the README at - https://github.com/Ellwould/information_technology_and_telecommunication_abbreviations
